# Classical Composer Suggestor
#### Video Demo:  <[URL](https://youtu.be/K7fx68c6nM8)>
#### Description:
##### A brief overview of Classical Composer Suggestor: Scrapes wikipedia page of classical composers using wikipedia library and parses with Beautiful Soup. Constructs a table using pandas of name, birth_year, death_year, and period of each composer. Fills name, birth_year, and death_year columns of this table using regex groupings. Categorizes birth_year and death_year of each row as Baroque, Classical, or Romantic to fill period column of dataframe. Prompts user for a period they would like a composer from (Baroque, Classical, or Romantic). Based on prompt, provides 3 random composers from that period by selecting 3 values from column name that have the user's selected period in their period column. Re-prompts if provided an invalid user response

##### Why I built it: I had in mind to create a suggestor of classical composers, since I sometimes don't know what to listen to. Something that would return a couple suggestions based on the classical period I had in mind. I thought to make it not only to help human indecision, but also showcase the breadth of classical music.

##### To start, I had to find a Table or list of classical composers. The first place I could think of that would have such a thing was Wikipedia, and I was correct. I thought to scrape Wikipedia using an API like we had done in the course. Fortunately enough for me, there is a Wikipedia library which allows you to access the HTML of a Wikipedia page just by providing the title of the Wikipedia page. After I had the HTML, I thought to use Beautiful Soup, a library which I've heard of many times to help developers scrape websites. After parsing the HTML with Beautiful Soup, I used some built-in Python functions to create a list of composers.
##### Once I had all the new line text sorted as elements in a list, I knew I had to get a little bit more specific to just extract the composers from the page. I noticed that each composer had their life in (YYYY-YYYY) format after their name, so I used regex to filter down to elements in the list with this pattern to filter out only composers. After filtering to only these 'composer elements' in the list I wanted to separate the name, birth, and death of each element and put them into a table. Using re.search and capturing groups I was able to do so. To summarize, I iterated over my list of new line elements, using a for loop to find each composer and subsequently extracting their name, birth, and death which I then put into my table as I extracted them. The dataframe I constructed with columns named "name", "birth_year", "death_year", and "period" using the Pandas library. After extracting the desired data from my list and putting them into my table, I cast the birth year and death year columns as integers and the period column as a list.
##### Now that I had the birth and death year elements, I was able to categorize each composer by period (or periods if they lived in two). Iterating over each row, I applied a function which, when provided a year, returns a classical era. This was done for both the birth and death year and their results were appended to the empty list existing in the period column. However, if the death year era is the same as the birth year era, it is not appended to the list. This categorization function was a simple if statement: if the input was between two years, then return a certain era. I understand that there is a little bit of overlap in the if statement, but the output is as expected. After iterating over the entire table, the dataframe was fully filled out!
##### Finally, on startup the dataframe is constructed then the user is prompted to provide a period they are interested in. I created a function which raises a ValueError unless a desired response is inputted. Until the prompt is fulfilled successfully, the user is reprompted. Once an appropriate response is inputted, the program searches for composers in the specified era and returns 3 at random! Enjoy ~

##### Thought process and roadblocks: Initially, when I found the wikipedia page, I thought that there would be a very simple way to return the composers in a list or in a table. I thought maybe through the Wikipedia library, I could call the composers by era in a JSON-like format like we had seen in the course, and from there create a list or dictionary of composers and their era. Also, in the Wikipedia library documentation, there were examples of extracting data from wiki tables. This page in particular was not structured as such, so I had to create a table out of the bulletted list. I'm unsure if I use the Wikipedia library to its full ability, such as if there was a more efficient way to return the wikipedia page as a list, but I'm proud and happy about reading through all the documentation to the best of my ability in coming up with this method. I also knew I wanted to do something with Pandas because generally speaking, I think data frames are fundamental to data analysis. Figuring out the documentation of pandas was a little bit daunting, but I'm glad I did it. All in all, I feel like I learned some valuable libraries and look forward to more code in the future :3
TODO
